---
layout: post
title:  "The Platformer Project"
date:   2021-11-23 21:30:32 +0900
categories:
---

# The Platformer Project

The Platformer Project is a collection of platformer games developed on legacy
systems for the sake of fun and learning.

## A Story

I (Orphen) remember playing Pokemon Yellow for so long while growing up that the
in-game playtime counter maxed out. I was absorbed in that magical world. I also
remember the day I learned about MISSINGNO., how it shattered that magical
world. I was playing in the system of Pokemon, but there was an encapsulating
system which governed the system of Pokemon. I was depressed at first, trying to
cope with the realization that the result of my investment of hundreds of hours
could be reproduced in mere minutes. But over time I started to develop a
strange nostalgia for this encapsulating system, strange because it was
nostalgia for something I had never really experienced before. My curiosity for
the rules of this encapsulating system eventually surpassed my curiosity for the
system of Pokemon.

Somewhere in this interplay of systems is overlap with concepts in books like
_GÃ¶del, Escher, Bach_, movies such as _The Matrix_, and interest in power over
nature instead of power over people.

## Where to Start

I'll mostly be focusing on Nintendo platforms. I thought about starting with the
Game Boy but realized that the Nintendo Entertainment System was older and more
fundamental in ways, so I opted for that.

## Where to End

I'm not really sure. Maybe I'll only make it to the Game Boy, or maybe the Game
Boy Advanced.

## And After That?

While thinking about this project, I had an idea to create an open retro
hardware platform on which modern (albeit technically restricted, due to the
nature of the hardware) games could be written. The hardware design would be
easy enough for many people to build themselves with ample motivation, but it
could also be assembled and distributed by others. There would be no DRM in
hardware or software because the purpose of the entire platform and ecosystem
would be play and education. The platform wouldn't necessarily be a staple in
everyone's home, no. But it would also not be "theirs;" it would be everyone's.

Imagine sitting down to play a game not on a platform from BigProtectiveCompany
but on an open system you or your friend built. Although you built it yourself,
you know there are similarly-minded people in other parts of the world playing
and sharing content on the same system. And the content is not made by
GreedyAAAStudio. It's made by creative parties who made it just because it was
fun, because it was cool. And if you wanted to, you could read the content's
code, modify it. When was the last time you forked a _game_, a _system_?
